GeoTrack Help File 


Purpose:

    Make maps of various types ( google earth and folium ) from input of various types:
		
		*A directory with photos
        *GPX files from geo tracking devices including phones
        *A set of photos ( files ) with geo tracking data in the metadata
            this is more or less standard for cell phone cameras
        *Data saved from earlier inputs.
        
        Data may be sorted and filtered in various ways.
        
        
  	The graphical user interface (GUI), general information.
  	
  		At the very top of the window is a menu bar with various options.
  	
  		At the top of the window but below the menu bar 
  		you indicate your input ( data source ) preferences.
  		
  		Below this are options for both filtering the data ( removing unwanted data )
  		and sorting the data.
  		
  		Below this are options for output and a button to kick off the activity
  		
  		Finally at the bottom is a "message area" where the application displays
  		various information for you.
  		
  		Some Details:
  		
  			The Menu:
  				MetaApp -> ( control thing about the app )
  					Show Parameters
  						A parameter file controls much of the operation of the program.
  						This menu option shows many of the parameters of the program in
  						the "message area" at the bottom of the GUI
  						
  					Edit Parameter File
  						This option lets you edit the parameter file ( but may work only after
  						the parameters for editing have been adjusted for your system.
  						I have general directions for editing parameter files somewhere
		
  					Edit Gui Log
  						Information sent to the message area of the app may be logged
  						( this depends on the Parameters ).  This allows you to see and
  						edit this log.
  						
  					Edit Log File
  						Lets you view/edit the application log file.
  					
  					Restart
  						Will restart the program, typically to use an edited parameter file.
  					
  					( the abiltity to view/edit any file depends upon the settings in the
  					  Parameters )	
  						
  				Help ->
  					Show General Help
  					
  					Show Developer Notes
  						This is a file of developer notes for the developere or you.
  						May or may not be of interest to you. Menu item may be controlled
  						by Parameters.
  						
  					About
  						An about box.
  					
  		
  			Below the menu most of the interface is divided into sections ( often with a title )
  			for controlling the details of the processing.		
  		
				Input Control
  				
  					Controls the input to the program:
  					
  					*"Input From", for the source of input to the program
  						DirScan    
  						   Starting a directory specified by "Get File Name"
						   photo file are found and the geo location data is extracted
						   this will work down the directory structure to find more and more
						   files.  This can be limited by the number in "Dir Recursion Litmi" with
						   0 meaning no limit 
  				 
                        FileList   
		                     you can make a list of photo file in a text file and use that list
		                     of photos as input
		                           
                        PhotoPoints
		                	Photo points refers to a file containing photo data previously extracted from
		                	photos.
                        	
                        GPXfile
                        	GPX files are files of geo information that may be produced by other programs
                        	
                    *"Get File Name" 	You can type a file name here or browse the file system to get
                    a file name.  ....
                        
                        If input is:
                            Dir scan, select a photo from the top level directory you want scanned.
                            	typically a .jpg, .bmp or .png file
                            File list: select a file with a list of files: typically a .txt file
                            PhotoPoints ..... typically a .csv file
                            GPXfile   ..... typically a .gpx file 
                        
                    <Browse>	Lets you select a file name for Get File Name
  					 
 				Date Filtering
 					If checked limits the data used to data points between the two dates entered
 					in the two date fields.
 				
 				 	
				Lat( N/S ) Long( E/W ) Filter
					For value ented other than "Ignore" data is filter only within the bounds
					you specify.
					....
				
				Sorting	
					Data may be sorted prior to plotting, these entries control the sorting.
					Improper sorting may result in odd maps.						
 					
 				Output Options
 				
 				Message Area 			 		
  		
        
Buttons: -- this data is obsolete 

    <Map from *.GPX file>
        Use the 
        Files of this type will normally have and extension of .gpx and
        this extension is required for this application.
    
    
    <Map from a Directory>
    
        Photos must have the extension .jpg, or .png or they will be ignored.
        
    <KMZ from a Directory> 
    
        Like map from a directory but output is a kmz file which is then
        opened in google Earth
        
        
    <Map from a FileList File> 
    
        A filelist file is just a text file where each line contains the
        full name of a photo file. 
        Photos must have the extension .jpg, or .png or they will be ignored.
        Some photos will not have the required meta data, they will also 
        be ignored.
  
    <Map from a FileList File>  
   
        Like map from a directory but output is a kmz file which is then
        opened in google Earth
        
    <Map from a GPX file>      

    <Browse...>
        Use this button to select a file for processing.
        If you want to select a directory ( as for <Map from a Directory> ) just
        select one file from the directory, the application will find the rest.


add to default file list
Dir Recursion Limit
Use Dates Checkbox
Start Date 
End Date
Open Browse File
Open Default FLL (FLL is File List File )


Map modifications:
    Maps generation may be modified in several ways
    
    sorting
    
    
    date selection 




Understanding the Process
	
	For photo input ( can be a directory to scan, a list of photos, or data saved from previous
	input of photos )
        You can have the program get this information in one of several ways.
            *Make up a file with a list of file-names of your pictures
            *Select a picture in a directory with many files, the application
              will scan for other pictures
            *From a gpx type file, this file can come from several sources:
            ......
    
    
    Output can take the following forms:
    
        A map in your web browser.
        A so called kmz file opened in Google Earth ( if you have Google Earth on your computer )
        
        Secondary outputs:
            is to take the list of files that the program has found
            and add them to a txt file that can later be used as an input source or any other
            use you might have for it.
            * An Html file with the map  
            * Kmz file for gooogle earth ( or other app )  
    
        
        
Parameters   
	Much of the behavior of the application is specified in the parameter file: parameters.py
	The primary documentation of this file is in the file itself.  A few mentions here:
	
		*
		*
		*











      
